when your thoughts are not reality
they're just thoughts
and the way that you create that
separation is through observation
not trying to fix it because fixing it
is getting into it
nice is it's connor yes nice to meet you
connor i'm all locker or dr k
whatever you prefer right i've watched a
lot of your stuff i know okay
um yeah so tell me man how how are you
doing today
i'm doing good i'm doing good i was a
little bit nervous
for a while i know i talked for a couple
months about coming on okay but i wanted
to wait until like i
knew i could like talk about something i
feel like could help a lot of people
awesome dude thank you very much
yeah because i have a pretty complex
case and a lot of history of like
going through different kinds of therapy
and different kinds of help trying to
figure out what's going on
okay um so i wanted to help provide some
insight on that for people hopefully
okay awesome dude that's that's actually
really awesome of you and i i think very
kind of you
um and to also think a little bit about
you know a lot of people feel like
they share problems with other people
but i think it's really thoughtful
to spend some time until you're ready
you know to sort of talk about things in
a productive way which is really cool
yeah i think something that i've learned
is that like
with all that i've dealt with is like
the way i see mental health issues is
it's really hard for me to put labels on
specific things like i might be
diagnosed with like depression
anxiety ocd all this stuff over the
years um
but i feel it just manifests in
different ways in different people it's
like even put a label on something is so
like
and then like be like for this issue you
need this medication or this kind of
treatment like
over the years i've gone beyond that and
thought like you know
it can work different for different
people that's awesome man i i'd love to
hear more about that
um do you want to just tell us a little
bit about what your journey has been
like or
i mean where where how do we start yeah
i mean um
so i mean i started streaming on twitch
uh in high school
um but that was after all this had
started so in like
seventh or eighth grade i was doing
great i was super social
super happy it was never down i was
i was always doing great and then around
like
end of middle school early high school i
had
began to develop really bad anxiety um
and like a lack of motivation
to go to school a lot of the time um
and i couldn't really pinpoint whether
that wasn't like social anxiety whether
that was depression what it was
but it was uh really difficult the time
to deal with um
and my family was concerned because i
wasn't going to class um
and as a couple questions about that
yeah what do you mean by anxiety
i would wake up in the morning and just
have like a pit in my stomach
about even getting up and getting out of
bed to go to school
and i couldn't exactly pinpoint why
there were it was felt like a million
reasons all at once
like my brain was moving so fast i
couldn't even uh
understand why i didn't want to go i
just knew i didn't okay
um that's something like as i've begun
to understand anxiety it's
uh i can pinpoint that feeling
and get what it is because at the time i
didn't really know
i could just kind of blame anything on
anxiety okay um
and then as i got through high school um
everything got progressively worse
pretty much throughout the years and
that's when i started streaming was to
kind of get an escape from it um when
you say
everything got worse what does that mean
what is that like i would
not be involved in as many social events
i would
be kind of to myself a lot a lot of my
friends would be concerned but i'd be
you know i'm fine i'm fine i'm okay um
did you feel okay
no not at all i felt terrible all the
time um i was very depressed
i was very anxious all the time what
does depressed mean
no motivation and just a complete lack
of feeling
and then if i do feel something it
pretty much always finds a way to
manifest itself with sadness
um it sounds rough man
no yeah it was it was really isolating
yeah so then um as i kept going through
high school um i did so many different
kinds of therapy
to try to get help different kinds of
medication i've probably been on 10
different
kinds of medication being an ssri at one
point we thought it might be
because of adhd so you know vivint stuff
like that or
anything to like a stimulant um did that
i did anxiety meds um
i had all that then i did different
therapies so uh
cbt which i still do i have a therapist
that i still work with here and there
mainly because i'm really close to them
um
i i don't really get too much out of it
anymore i think but
i still do enjoy it like that talking
time
um i did that i did exposure based
therapy last year
i've done dbt which i think is like
forget how to describe it that was like
some like clicking thing
you know what that is it's not my
understanding of dbt but
there is wait which one is hold on i
have a couple there's
i had a there was one oh emdr that's
what it is
yeah i did that and then dbt as well
um so i've gone through a couple
different things
just to try to figure stuff out over the
years and nothing ever really seemed to
click too much
um uh once i started getting
through high school um with
relationships specifically
i would be extremely anxious and
extremely overwhelmed with emotion
and relationships be it friends and
especially like romantic relationships
like i would um
just overthink everything it would
consume me every day
um i mean there was a time in high
school where like before i even could go
on a date
like i would have to like get there
early to throw up in the bathroom
before even i'd be so nervous and
anxious
um and a lot of that stems from a really
negative self-image i developed for
myself
over the years dealing with that um
the negative self-image developed from
that
or cause it's i it's kind of like what
came first the chicken or the egg i
guess i guess like
in um i remember like before i dealt
with all this i really was happy with
myself
and i wasn't down about all the time but
then as things got worse it felt like
any
negative situation in my life i would
view myself so negatively
and blame it on me um so especially with
relationships uh
it became any time i was interested in
somebody it became like a case of
limerence
so that is when um so there's like
romantic love but then there's like
limerence which is romantic love but
like you require
so much reassurance all the time because
i'm constantly questioning myself
and the relationship so i'm constantly
needing that reassurance for myself
and it would just become so destructive
in relationships
um because i just be like thinking
people hate me people are lying to me
and all this stuff and
it was very difficult um and so around
then that's when i got diagnosed with
ocd
and looking back on like my childhood it
made a lot more sense because
as a kid i would do a lot of ocd
tendencies
um and my mom's friend is a
is a what is it
like a children's behavioral therapist
and when i was a kid she thought i had
ocd as well just because of
how i would tap things when i leave and
i'd have freakout attacks over
the most mundane things connor how are
you feeling right now
right now um i'm good i'm just trying to
make sure i cover everything
okay so i want to pause for a second is
that okay
so i'm noticing like a slight tremor in
your voice
um i don't know if it's discord but i
kind of like notice you almost
um shaking a little bit are you oh i sh
yeah i
shake all the time regardless i don't
even know if that's
uh yeah i i've always been shaking for a
long time my chat will actually make fun
of me
and be like whenever i show my hands on
stream they'll say like earthquake
or something because like i'm just
always shaking
okay um well i it was my discrete
impression that you were not doing that
at the beginning of our call
so i don't know if it just fluctuates
with time or it might just be because
i'm really
thinking deeply and trying to like dive
back into things that i don't usually
think about okay um because i kind of
suppress a lot of this
i think especially now i'm doing better
um okay
yeah sorry i derailed you i just wanted
to check no you're good you're good okay
i was i'm just trying to remember
everything and so you get the timeline
that someone close to your family uh
thought that you had ocd growing up
because you used to tap things
yeah that and just other like uh
behaviors that i can't totally remember
right now but it was when i was a kid
um so then uh after going through the
proper
channels i got diagnosed officially with
ocd specifically rscd
relationship-based ocd where it was it
doesn't really
it's not really as much physical as it
is social and mental
um you know reassurance different things
stuff like that
um that became a bit of an issue
and so then it was like i had so much
diagnose for me that i was like i don't
even know what to tackle like i was just
like sure
like what do i do like do i take a
medication for this do i tackle this
is there i know you talk a lot about
like uh root causes and like looking
back
so i was like well was there like a
trauma or something and i couldn't
pinpoint anything
um so yeah i did a lot over the years
um the most helpful thing was last year
when i did
uh exposure-based therapy i went to a
place in florida
for the summer got an apartment and
stayed over there
and got help for that over the summer
and that that was the most helpful thing
but it still didn't like fully
feel like fix my issues the way i wanted
like
because my biggest thing was i always
felt like i wasn't i felt like i wasn't
myself a lot
like when i stream and i was like behind
the computer
i felt like i was being me and i was
like this is
like i'm me again this was my escape and
then whenever i would go out
and like my escape from the constant
anxiety and the
social issues that i was facing and then
whenever i'd
go off stream i'd instantly kind of go
into like a shell again
and sort of fall back into anxiety or
depression or other things
um so that was originally why i started
is it was the only way i could really
get away from that
it's interesting because you use the
word escape but i'm not hearing
actually that it was an escape i'm
hearing that
your truest sense of reality is actually
when you're streaming
yeah yeah
it's interesting because people will
probably look at streaming in like i i
can imagine that mental health
professionals may call that an escape is
societally we sort of
you know call gaming and and streaming
and computers and all that kind of stuff
like escapes from real life but i think
actually what's really bizarre is that
sometimes we can be our truest selves
through the internet yeah and that's
when we don't have to worry about
judgment from other people based on what
we look like or what our ethnicity is or
what our sexuality is we can just be
ourselves
kind of interested in that that was i
had such a negative view of myself
um that to have that kind of
platform where i felt like there was no
preconceived notion of like what i
looked like
or who i was it was a much easier way to
tap into that side of myself
um so once i started doing that
that was always something i look forward
to each day so i don't know how i would
have gone through stuff without it
um and then
i guess the thing now is like
over the past year like i mean i used to
stream like maybe five to ten people
and then in the past year and a half
that's gone up to like two thousand
so it's it's just absolutely exploded
and now like i've got a crew out of this
i don't need
like i didn't know what i was gonna do
in college and now i'm like
focused on this and i'm really happy um
but now it becomes kind of
the voice in the back of my head is well
where would you be if that didn't happen
like i don't really know what i'd be
doing
um it almost is like well i'm feeling
better but is that because of the
circumstances around me
or is that because i'm actually better
it's one of those things that i've
struggled with lately sure
i can almost hear like some sense of
like fear there
yeah there is there's there's like if
all this
collapsed in a day like if suddenly i
couldn't strain anymore something
happened or
whatever like what would i do um
and would i would i go right back to
that dark spot i was in in high school
yeah it's kind of interesting because
you know when we start to feel better
and if you're thinking about like
circumstances like if i'm better because
i have more viewers the the really scary
part about that is doesn't really mean
you're better at all
it just means that you know there's some
circumstance in your life that's kind of
propping you up
and if someone takes that away they take
away all your progress
yeah i wouldn't say it was the viewer
account specifically it was more just
like
having a career out of it sure where
like where i
knew i didn't have to pursue college
immediately or stuff like that because i
went to college for
two semesters um once i got out of high
school i
the only reason i enrolled was because i
knew if i saw all my friends go off to
college
and i was doing nothing still and still
dealing with what i was dealing with i
would just be even more depressed yep so
it's like
okay i'm going to enroll and at least do
like two or three classes just to be a
part of something
to get my brain out there but i mean i
hated it like
it was still school for me and i could
not find motivation to do any work um
it just wasn't my my place conor can i
think for a second
are there other things other parts of
the story that you want to tell
um or is that a pretty good summary it's
a pretty good summary for the most part
i mean if something comes up later on i
can try to
sure so that that's why because i
thought it was a fantastic
summary um thank you and so i just want
to
pause for a second and think about all
the different directions we could take
this
all right
okay so i've got a couple of
uh options okay can you let me know what
you think would be helpful
so one thing that we could talk about is
just your experience
of like what it's like to be in mental
health treatment
it sounds to me like you've tried a lot
of stuff you've actually worked really
hard you've been on medications you've
tried all these different kinds of
therapy
you've gotten lots of different
diagnoses just what how can we sort of
like think about that and understand
that like
what's going on like what's helpful what
isn't helpful what's it been like to
get labeled with all these different
things
what's been useful about all this if
anything
um so we could sort of talk a little bit
more about mental health in your journey
through
diagnoses and things like that kind of
related to that we could try to
understand like what
ocd is and like sort of how it works and
how we understand ocd from a mental
health perspective
another thing that we could try to do is
sort of think a little bit about like
the root cause
right so you've tried lots of different
therapies and things like that and you
mentioned things like
viewing yourself negatively and your
mind sort of overthinking and
you're being consumed by your thoughts
um and we can try to really sort of
figure out like
as you mentioned there's something that
transcends
diagnosis right there's some kind of
like basic
suffering i'm just going to call it
suffering
but it may be like a way that you view
yourself or it may be uh
the way that your mind works which if
you talk to a half a dozen mental health
professionals they're gonna call it
different things
but for you the experience has always
been one thing
even though your diagnosis may have
changed from year to year it's not like
you randomly got a different like
you started with anxiety then you
randomly got depression one year later
and then randomly gone
rocd it's always been that one thing
so what is that thing and how can we
understand it
yeah another option yeah go ahead
i was going to say i like that one so
far because i feel like okay that's
something that would help me
okay so the other thing to think about
is that you know sometimes when we think
about fixing a problem
we can think about the root and we can
also think about
what's above ground so how we can sort
of think a little bit about how your
mind
functions in the present so what is the
nature
of your obsessional thoughts where do
obsessional thoughts come from why do
they come
why do they come when they do like sort
of almost like a
you know if we were to like open up your
mind in the here and now and look at
its function you know yeah that's
actually
that's something that i've been doing a
lot more lately having watched you
is uh think more presently yeah um
and like look into like not like i like
become a stoic but look into like
stoicism kind of
thoughts and uh philosophy and all that
which helped me so i think a lot of
times especially in
in psychiatry we kind of focus on the
past but i think from if you look at the
meditative approach which is a lot like
stoicism
you know your thoughts there is a rhyme
and reason to why
you have the thoughts that you do your
mind ultimately like case in point
you used to need to go to dates early
because you would need to vomit in the
bathroom ahead of time
and that certainly sounds awful but if
we stop and think about it there's
actually like a science behind that
there's a predictive response like you
know what's going to happen
and then you plan for it which tells us
that there's actually some
order to like what's going on in your
mind
even though it like really sucks and
there may be value and forget about like
where this comes from or if it's some
deep rooted problem or whatever
but just in that moment you can start to
come up with solutions for the here and
now without actually worrying about
where this all comes from yeah
so there's root cause there's in the
present and then the last thing that i
was kind of thinking about is like you
mentioned this term limerence
and and relationship rocd and so
i think maybe we could just talk a
little bit about what those terms mean
what the experience of those things are
um yeah and and so what would you like
to do
i think like those last three things
that you mentioned um
are all things that i'd like to tackle
and think i could get into okay the
last three points yeah okay so the first
two are things i feel like i
understand pretty well okay sure so
let's um
let's actually start with the last one
then so you so we can
everyone who's watching can also like
get a backdrop of what we're talking
about so
can you tell us what limerence or rocd
is
yeah so i mean the main thing is rocd
that is
um ocd that manifests itself in a
social context a lot of the time or at
least emotional
um like a lot of people that struggle
with ocd
view it as like oh i need things to be
in order or something
which for most people i've spoken to
that that have like more physical
uh issues with ocd they don't really
even have that a lot of times it's more
um contamination based or other things
uh like that but for me it's much more
on the i think it's kind of how ocd
combines with anxiety
um to create a
sorry it's hard to word but especially
with such a strange subject it's hard to
explain to people but
emotionally the reassurance that's
needed is
i can't really control that like i can't
act make my mind like think the way that
i know i should
yep that makes sense yep um
and so i'll deal with with feelings and
anxieties that i know for a fact are
like not
logical um but it doesn't change the
fact that they are completely
legitimate in my head and i can't get
past them okay
that's great that's a great uh
explanation
so i'm gonna just touch on something for
a second so
um you know if we listen to conor connor
saying that like it
a lot of people's perception of ocd is
actually what what we call
ocpd so there's obsessive-compulsive
disorder
and then there's obsessive-compulsive
personality disorder
so one is like when we think about a
personality disorder versus a
non-personality disorder i think about
ocd is something that affects you ocpd
is something that you are so
people who have ocpd or people that i'd
call control freaks
so they like want things highly
organized they want things done a
particular way
and if we listen to conor connor is
saying that i know the thoughts in my
hat
in my head are actually crazy but i
can't control them
right so a big difference between ocpd
and ocd
is whether you yourself think that your
thoughts are a problem
so people who are ocpd and one thing
things highly organized and are
controlled freaks
they don't think they have a problem
they think that everyone else has a
problem
that's something that we call ego
syntonic in psychiatry which means that
it's completely it fits with like your
perceptions
ocd is is very discreet because people
who have ocd
know that their thoughts are irrational
they just can't do anything about it
like you know factually that some of the
thoughts in your head are sort of false
and yet you are still controlled by your
thoughts
does that make sense and so the the
first thing that i kind of want to point
out
is that it implies that you and your
thoughts are different things
they're different entities does that
make sense
yes are you saying that you agree with
that
that i'm are you are you saying that
that is the truth or
yeah yeah i mean that's what i'm
perceiving from you yeah
is that an accurate perception right
because yes absolutely 100
so if we listen to conor connor saying
my thoughts i know they're factually
incorrect
and yet i can't do anything about them
they end up controlling me
i have to seek the reassurance so if we
just look at like
sentence structure it implies that you
are discreet from your thoughts
right they're not you which that in and
of itself i think is the first and most
important thing to realize
is that like you were separate from this
and the more that we can help you
house yourself in
your self the better your experience of
ocd will be
yes absolutely it's funny i like how you
ordered that because that's something
that like
the past few months i've been really
like working on my own to like
look into different things i've been
looking at a lot of your talks and stuff
and
being really introspective and that's
something that's really
like worked for me is kind of separating
those two things and realizing that i'm
not the thoughts
um it's helped more than most things
that i've learned over the years
great i'm thrilled to hear that so like
maybe we can help you further along
yeah um so
i just want to make sure so like is
did i know you understood but let me
just clarify like
so you know the self is different from
the thoughts
and it sounds like the more that you've
come to appreciate that
in some ways maybe things have gotten a
little bit better and we can talk more
about that
is that fair is that true for everybody
or is that something that only i deal
with okay
nope that's true for everyone so i think
the the
the gift and the curse for you
is that that separation a lot of people
never need to understand because their
thoughts
never beat the [ __ ] out of them the way
that your thoughts beat the [ __ ] out of
you right
and so a lot of people like our thoughts
are more on the same team
with us whereas some people's thoughts
if we think about people who are like
depressed and especially like really
self-critical
right so some people go around and they
beat themselves up like you mentioned
that you view yourself negatively in
social situations
so it's almost like your thoughts are
attacking you
right so then it becomes a circle of
my thoughts are attacking me i end up
behaving in a way that i'm not happy
with
like i'm more enclosed i'm not acting
like myself
which then makes things actually worse
and then i'm sad again
and it's just a circle of yep anxiety in
that regard
and and so so so let's just think
through that circle okay so you're a
piece of [ __ ]
right right and then you close yourself
off
and then what happens is you start to
panic
because as you see yourself closing
yourself off
you know that things are not going to go
well socially because you're doing
it's not just your thoughts anymore it's
like you're not talking when you should
be talking
you know yes becomes like a blankness
almost like i'm not even
like i can't even think about what to
say i'm just blank
yep and then but but the thing is the
self in you
recognizes that you're blank
and then as you recognize your blank you
realize like there's this horrible like
self-fulfilling prophecy that starts to
arise in your mind
oh no it's happening again right
absolutely yeah oh no it's happening and
then what happens
is it happens and then people ask you
hey connor do you want to go grab
dinner after we're done with class and
then your mind is blank
and you kind of look at them like this
and then they like okay man we'll catch
you later and then they leave
they can yeah something like that right
and then what happens
is you go back to i'm a piece of [ __ ]
except this time
it's not an irrational thought this
time it's true i am abusive
right this time you have evidence
like this time like you actually know
you just screwed it up again
and now we get to the cycle because now
that you're you're even more sure you're
a piece of crap
it's going to make closing yourself off
even worse
it's going to make the self-fulfilling
prophecy even worse
you're going to draw even more of a
blank
and then it happens again yeah
and then then you're even worse yep it's
that same circle in
so many different situations that same
process can you tell us just give us an
example of one more
like with limerence as we were talking
about like with romantic relationships
like
if things will be going fine and then
the next day like i'll wake up and be
like
i don't think that she likes me anymore
or something so then
you know i need to come up with some
excuse to text them something just so i
get a response
so then i feel even though i know it's
completely irrational
i'm just it's just something my ocd like
requires from me
okay i need this reassurance and then
i'll do that and then i maybe won't get
a response or something
and then immediately overthinking
everything like oh my god
no response this is the worst thing in
the world um
and i'll collapse on myself then the
whole day be completely depressed unable
to do anything just
shut down okay yeah
okay so i i didn't mean to laugh but i i
think
we're gonna make some progress today and
and my hope is that
in a sense it'll be simpler but i think
it's going to be tough so let's let's go
through this play-by-play does that
sound okay
so now we're shifting to in the present
okay so we talked maybe maybe we could
talk
more about our ocd but so you wake up in
the morning so let's start there
you wake up in the morning how do you
feel
um i'm not sure it depends on the day i
guess but okay
good that's a good answer and then then
at some point you have this thought she
doesn't like me
yeah i mean i haven't really dealt with
this right now but it's something that i
have dealt with
sure yeah so then what happens you have
the thought
the thought pops into your head she
doesn't like me right
so then that becomes like i can't really
escape that
like i can't i can't myself does not go
well that's not the case because of x y
or z
it's this is the case and no matter what
i try to do to convince myself it feels
like that is the truth in my mind
okay so that thought becomes a fact
does that make sense yes so in that
moment
thinking and reality become one
yeah the other thing you say is that you
can't escape it but it sounds like you
try
i do yeah so the first thing that
happens is that you
your some part of your mind starts to
fight a war
with the other part of your mind there's
the
she doesn't like me and then tell me
what that fight looks like
um what do you tell yourself trying to
think so it'll be like
i'll feel i'll feel that urge or
whatever that
need for a reassurance and then i try to
remind myself of like past situations
where i've seeked
a kind of reassurance and it's made
things actually bad
i guess because um so i try to convince
myself that way
but then it just doesn't compute
i don't i just it's still somehow like i
might for a half a second almost it
feels like because my brain's moving so
fast
like half a second i might feel like
okay i'm good and then
immediately the intrusive thoughts are
back in and eventually it feels like i
give in every time
okay you give in yeah
no my dude you get exhausted yeah
that is a better way to describe it
right so it's not that you give in
it's that you run out of gas like it's
like you try to fight so
so the uh and once again conor i think
there's a lot of valuable stuff
in your representation so you say that
there's an urge
for reassurance yes and then what fights
the urge for reassurance
is logic so then your mind
your thoughts you conor the self
directs your mind and says mind we have
this urge for reassurance
i know that that urge is false let us
come up with evidence
and tell the urge that you don't need to
belong here
yeah this is not true that she doesn't
like me is not a fact
and then you have this little war
between your logic and your urge
and you fight that war for a while but
then like the urge seems to
what happens to the urge as you try to
logic against it
um i try to like
well lately whenever i deal with
something like that um
i've been trying to like think of like
root causes or something
for why i need that so that's lately
whenever i do
[ __ ] like that it that's what kind of
becomes and
the only thing that i really go back to
is like a negative self-image
and so i'm like well i feel like i need
this reassurance because i feel like i'm
not
good enough or i'm not like i'm i don't
like myself about anybody else like me
something like that
yeah um so that becomes the circle
you're you're doing good
with that i think that's a step forward
let's actually before you started doing
that
what would happen um
so let me think what was the step before
so like when you try to argue with
yourself
like there's a part of you that has you
have the urge for reassurance then you
argue with yourself
what would happen when you argue with
yourself when i argued myself it would
feel like almost my thoughts would try
to argue with that back
yep so i'd be like i would search for
reasons to prove myself wrong
search for reasons to prove your logical
part wrong
yes to prove my logical self wrong so
literally like a fight in my brain
it feels like between two sides to like
prove each other wrong or right yep
and which side wins always the
overthinking
ocd the urge right so i'm going to ask
you kind of a weird question would you
say that the logical part of your brain
in a bizarre way actually
fuels the urge for reassurance
yes yeah that that yeah that's it's
weird right because
in your mind you're trying to shut it
down but actually what you're causing it
to do is grow
yeah that's actually one thing that one
of my doctors told me like a year ago
was like
the people that are like the most
introspective and she used the word
smart but like
just understanding their mind and really
try to like solve this
they almost struggle more because they
trust themselves
and understand themselves and so when
they have these distortions
like when i have these distortions it's
very tough for me to differentiate
between
what is fact and what is wrong because
it feels like i should be able to trust
myself yeah
i think that makes sense i would use
slightly different language but i think
the general principle that the more that
you argue with let's call them
ocd thoughts for lack of a better term
or the urge for reassurance
the stronger it gets
and then your logic eventually gets
spent and then you're left with the urge
for reassurance and then what do you do
what happens when the urge for
reassurance wins in a relationship
then i become like too clingy i'll be
too like i just i just i'm not acting
like myself
um who are you acting like
the ocd anxiety whatever like this
separate piece of me that i
don't like i don't enjoy seeing but it
manifests itself
um and the strange thing is that like
the same like
image that like i get of that feeling i
guess when i when i view that in
retrospect
is the same self-image that i put on
myself
anytime that like anything negative
happens if that makes sense
so like that view of myself doing that
how i view myself like that very often
even when i shouldn't i guess which i
think
that's a whole nother issue of itself
but it's something i've never known
it's not a whole other issue that's the
crux of it my dude
okay so so let's just here let's just
make sure we understand what you said
right
so when you get too clingy so there are
a couple of important points here the
first is that you say you're not
yourself and
and this goes back to the idea that like
conor is his true self when he's
streaming
right and that's when you're
unencumbered by your thoughts
you just get to be you and then you see
the urge for reassurance
transform you into this like
emotion sucking vampire like it's
not you you're like clingy and you're
hungry and you like need something from
someone else
you like suck the life like out of like
something
to sustain this part of you and then you
look at yourself there's some
part of true connor stuck in the corner
of your mind
that's like full of despair and rage
because you see yourself like losing to
this thing
and then you're not you're like this
isn't me but i don't know how to stop
right and when it first started like i i
didn't have that sense of self
and logic i guess so it was just like a
complete like roller coaster
but then ever since that like i have
realized that
now it is what you just described we're
like i'm just like
i feel like i'm just a passenger
watching this happen and
you know it's it's stressful and so you
said um
yeah so we'll get get to that okay so
i i don't know how i'm gonna not lose
that but um
so and then you said that you actually
notice that you feel the same way that
you do when
you sort of equated it to feeling
something else
negative so i don't have exactly to
describe it but it's something i've
thought about lately is that like
this same negative self-image of myself
that i'll get
in situations where i really shouldn't
be down on myself
is that same feeling i get looking at
that anxiety looking at that part of me
almost like i'm like i am be
i think part of my negative self-image
is
i've kind of placed this anxiety ocd
beast as my identity
in a lot of places um which i obviously
don't like
yeah so so then you have a negative you
become too clingy
you start to beat yourself up for being
clingy
sure and then the more that you beat
yourself up
then we sort of complete the cycle and
we reinforce
she doesn't like me because i am not
worth liking
right right and then once we get back
there the urge for reassurance arises
again
you become clingy again you view
yourself negatively
you view yourself as possibly pathetic
because you're so clinky
that's not who you want to be it's not
who you know you are
and then since you becoming something
that you know you're a
good person somewhere buried in there
but since as you move away from that
it becomes more and more likely that she
does not like you
and then so the cycle just repeats so
like you're right yeah and that's
that's just how it manifests in romantic
relationships yeah like it's a
completely different thing for each
situation in my life
yes but it's the same circle exactly
right so that's the
so here's the cool thing connor if it's
the same circle
if we can break the circle for one
dimension of your life we can break it
for all dimensions of your life
this is also what i think gets diet gets
you a thousand different diagnosis
because depending on the content of the
circle
someone will diagnose you with anxiety
yeah if the content of the
circle is different they'll diagnose you
with depression
and if the content of the circle
involves relationships
you get rocd right so what people are
doing is they're they're in this kind of
goes back to your earlier instinct that
there's something like at the root of
this
and just depending on the flavor of it
they'll give you a different diagnosis
oh this guy is beating himself up he
feels guilty
he has no motivation depression oh he's
worried about his future
he's worried that he won't have a career
he's worried worried worried
anxiety yeah oh yeah that makes a lot of
sense cause like i believe like i've had
those things it's just that i've through
different people it's been like
the things that they target it almost
became
when i would see different doctors like
i would just be exhausted trying to
explain everything
because i felt like i wasn't
encompassing everything and that they
weren't getting the full
the full picture yeah and and i think
what you were giving them
is what in a sense they're looking for
because this is how we do psychiatrist
we get trained
to like bucket people because that's how
western medicine works okay you're ill
is it a physical illness or medic mental
illness okay we're gonna
bucket you into physical illness oh is
it a temporary illness or a chronic
illness oh okay it's a temporary
okay is it infectious or non-infectious
okay it's infectious
is it covid or not covid okay so we slot
people down that's how we're trained to
think
it's it's you i mean i'm not saying it's
bad it's just it has strengths and
weaknesses
for some people who do have sort of a
simple depression it works really well
but then i think sometimes i you know we
meet people like you
who have a bunch of i'm sure your chart
is filled with different diagnoses
oh yeah yeah and and so one of my
teachers once taught me that if anyone
has three diagnoses they're all wrong
yeah and and it's just different and
that's because we even know as
clinicians that we tend to like
label people with things but if you know
i don't think you have
three discrete disease prospects
depression anxiety and ocd
happening in your mind it does sound to
me like for what it's worth that maybe
you do have something like ocd that
seems to be the
the best fit but um at the end of the
day what we can see is that there is a
cycle
right and then the linchpin of the cycle
is what do you have any idea
um maybe like intrusive thoughts
something like that so uh okay so that's
definitely a key feature of
all of the cycles right the fact that
when you use the word intrusive that
means that you don't want to think about
it
and it rings your doorbell and is like
here i am
right right so i asked you how do you
feel when you wake up in the morning
you're like it depends on the day and
then the thought jumps in
she doesn't like that's the intrusion
it's the unwanted stranger showing up at
your door
like i'm having a good day and then
you're taking a piss and it's like oh
she doesn't like me
it's like [ __ ] now we go off on this
like you board this roller coaster and
then here we go
you're strapped in there's nothing you
can do to get off
so what what do you think let me just
it's
sort of a read my mind question what let
me ask
ask it this way what do you think are
the comments so if this cycle can
manifest as depression or anxiety
what is common about the cycle
um you go a little bit further with that
i'm not sure exactly yeah so like if we
think about it
i guess what i'm sort of hunting for
there are a couple of things one is that
i think as you mentioned that there's
this idea of a negative self-image that
seems to transcend
all of these individual cycles what do
you think about that
yes i yeah i agree i think that
that's something that i've come to
realize is that
at the at the core of it in a lot of
ways
it always comes back to how i view
myself okay
so then we get now we get to the
theoretically the root of it how do you
view yourself
[Music]
um yeah not not very well a lot of the
time
tell me about honor i'm really hard on
myself a lot
um anything that i do wrong or things
around me
i usually end up blaming myself or think
about what i could have done better
um physically i i cannot stand seeing
myself on camera or in the mirror or
anything
i just pretty much anything about me
like i'm
it's i'm very hard on myself um when you
see yourself in the mirror
what kind of thoughts do you have i
immediately get the same
anxious down that's the exact feeling
that i get when i make that
reassurance mistake is what i get when i
see myself in the mirror
okay um it's just i just get super down
on myself it doesn't mean that like i
hate myself or anything like that
like it's like i i like me the me that i
really know that i
am like when i'm streaming and stuff or
when i'm behaving how i
really feel and feel comfortable um
but otherwise i i don't otherwise i have
this super negative image of myself
okay can you tell us like so i'm looking
for more
color or flavor about super negative
image
can you tell me like literally what
thoughts you have when you look at
yourself in the mirror
like oh this guy is just
dumb annoying um he
like he's ugly he isn't funny he tries
too hard he's
just all this stuff all these really
intrusive negative thoughts about myself
okay um so the interesting thing i want
to point something out to you
so when i look at myself in the mirror
what i would expect is if i was going to
have negative images
and negative thoughts about myself i
would expect them to be physical in
nature does that make sense yeah and a
lot of times they are
um yeah but here's so much things that
like um yeah yeah go ahead
no you can keep going i was no i mean i
i think it's interesting because you
only said
the first thing that you said is he's
dumb
right yeah and i think i might have just
been beating around the bush i mean
there definitely is a physical element
there
like that i get really hard on myself
for i agree that there's a physical
element but what i think is really
really notable
is that there's a lot more than a
physical album
so the first thing that i i want to
point out to you is that
your criticisms of yourself do not
stem fundamentally from the outside
world
right because if they were purely
physical
then that would make sense in a weird
way but the fact that you can look at
yourself in the mirror and say this is a
guy that tries too hard like
how the [ __ ] if i showed you a thousand
pictures of people's faces how
on earth does anyone know who's a
tryhard and who isn't it just
completely does not compute so the first
thing that i want to point out to you is
a lot of what you believe about yourself
literally cannot come from outside you
yeah yeah okay
so then the question uh-huh no yeah i'm
i'm processing that it make me make
sense absolutely
right because like if you just looked at
yourself and you're like oh this guy's
ugly he's overweight
you know his hair is funny he's got a
big nose
like whatever needs to trim his eye a
sideburns
like if those are the kinds of thoughts
like that would sort of make sense
because it's coming from
your sense organs like it's you're
you're beating yourself up for your
appearance but you're beating yourself
up
when you see yourself in the mirror
because it evokes something about
you that is not
based on your appearance it's just like
you have this idea
of yourself as being crappy in some way
which i think you've started to realize
right so the other thing uh
okay so let me ask you this when did you
start to have that opinion
about yourself
i think it was around when everything
really started to take off like
probably around early high school um
what happened around early high school
i don't think that i'm constantly trying
to figure that out it doesn't really
feel like anything happened
okay it just kind of felt like as i as
the world around me was like people were
growing up becoming more mature and
stuff
like i almost felt like thrust into
position to grow up as well maybe
okay and didn't feel quite ready i don't
know
i'm trying to feel like you're weren't
as good as they were
yeah in a lot of ways um i've always
been
a little bit shorter than everybody so i
was like everybody else is going through
growth spurts and i'm you know i'm 5'5
and everybody is still growing and there
was stuff like that
there was a sense of
well all my friends are playing sports
and doing all this cool stuff and you
know
working out every day and i like playing
video games
um and i'm not really
doing much because this was before my
stream and all that so i was
pretty uh i felt i felt different from a
lot of people
and then like the people that shared
interests with me like that were
that did like video games or stuff like
that was not really a crowd that i like
to be around
uh for a variety of reasons um whether
it just didn't work together they didn't
like their humor
like i had a desire to be social and a
lot of these people were no social
um so i fit in with a different crowd
yeah so you know i think conor sometimes
when i ask like where did that start a
lot of times
people
think that it has to be something like
big and
dramatic you know like oh
like for my eight eight my 13th birthday
like my dad didn't show up
and he told me i was a piece of [ __ ] and
then like that shattered me like we try
to think about something traumatic but
in my experience
what happens is like you see how this is
a cycle and with each iteration of the
cycle
it grows yeah
so the really interesting thing is that
everyone sort of looks for some dramatic
source
myself included for like the origin of
your problems where if we really think
about it
if it grows with every cycle it can
start with a tiny seed
the most insignificant of experiences
and then you run through the cycle and
it levels up
and you run through the cycle and it
levels up
and then in high school it starts
leveling up every day
at the end of high school it's leveling
up twice a day
it paid for the xp buff and now it's
getting really good at grinding it's got
end game gear
you know it's got its farm patterns down
every relationship it grows and it grows
and it grows but it can start from a
tiny little seed
like i see you're saying like make the
video game analogy but that is actually
the case right for like any time i would
make progress like it would
it would almost become stronger in a
different way like i would
may if i got past it at all in a day
then it would
come back in a different way yep and
defeat me again yeah so and i think that
goes back to the urge okay so now
i'm gonna can i draw
yes okay
so we're gonna see if we can help you
out how are we doing so far connor any
questions
i'm good no i'm i'm i'm really getting
somewhere
okay i'm i'm hoping other people can
get help out of it too okay
this is definitely a new experience for
me because i don't usually go on camera
for the most part most of my streams are
no camera oh really so uh
doing that with talking about serious
stuff is definitely
new for me how are you feeling about all
that i'm a little i've been nervous and
i've been like
off but i'm it's it's a good kind of
nervous i guess because i did when i did
exposure-based therapy this was the
exact kind of thing that like
they encouraged okay hold on one second
okay so here's what i we're gonna start
with the cycle okay and i apologize for
my abysmal handwriting
all right
no okay so the cycle is
stop it she
doesn't like me
okay so this is interesting because then
you said there's an
urge for reassurance
do you want to place this under like
this specific um
kind of situation or because like she
doesn't like me is just like
an example right yeah that's okay yeah
unless you have an issue with it i'm
just using that because that's what i
don't have an issue i'm just trying to
think if there's like a better thing we
could call it so i could try to like
apply it to more things than just
okay sure so let's call this the
intrusive thought how's that
yeah yeah yeah
okay and then what happens is logic
arises
and logic fights right
and logic is like i'm
a cool guy
yeah and then there's like a war
and then like the more you fight the
more this increases
and then eventually you run out of mana
and then you end up clinky
we good does that make sense then what
happens
is then there's um
think about how to do this
so then what happens is that you start
to become someone
start to become
that which
you loathe
and this i'm gonna call your negative
self-attitude
right so this is the transcendent part
right just like we're saying the
intrusive thought is like the part that
is not specific
this is also not specific this always
happens
and then you notice changes to your
behavior change
to behavior
and then self-fulfilling prophecy
and then we can go all the way back
to she doesn't like me make sense yes
yeah yeah and i'm i'm seeing how i can
apply that to
a different situation like different
situations as well absolutely
so like like for example like at the top
it could be like
if i'm gonna go hang out with a bunch of
my friends from high school that like
are here for thanksgiving
um then it would be like
well i don't want to not act i don't
want to
be quiet i don't want to not act like
myself i want to be me
yep um and then that
after that it kind of becomes i'm
overthinking trying to
be me almost yep and so then
yeah yep so let's look at something else
right so here's the other thing
what is the self-fulfilling prophecy do
to the negative self-attitude
it justifies it it makes it seem makes
it seem legitimate
plus right and then what happens
is so we're also going to call this
your ocd self and then there's your true
self
and what happens is like any time your
self negative self attitude increases
and the self-fulfilling prophecy
increases there's a fight between your
ocd self and your true self
this is you saying i'm not this way this
is not who i
am and the ocd self says [ __ ] you
this is exactly who i am and see right
see
and here's here's the proof look at what
just happened absolutely and then so
this
conflict ends up leading to hopelessness
we haven't used the word hopeless yet
but what do you think about that
yeah that's a great way to and how it's
felt over the years
especially at a lot of different moments
because like here's
here's conor in the corner of your mind
and he's fighting against this thing and
he's trying so
hard conor you've tried so hard you've
seen
so many doctors and done so many
different therapies and so many
different medications
yeah and this [ __ ] over here wins
every single time and so no wonder
you're hopeless
right so then the question becomes okay
so like what do we do about that
yeah like that negative self attitude
like that
like my true self looking at the
negative self attitude
like that feeling of myself is what i
see in the mirror
it's what i it's anything to do with me
that i feel i'm not in control over
is is that feeling and then that leads
that hopelessness again
in so many different situations yep so
this is the cool thing
connor i know it sounds weird that i
call it cool but like
in so many different situations so this
is what i want you to understand
it is the very reason that you feel
attacked on all sides
and you're struggling in so many
different places
it's all one thing which can feel
overwhelming
but it's almost like you know like the
the
one opening of the death star
because the cool thing is that since
this is all one complex in your mind
if you can pull the plug on one you'll
pull the plug on everything
so the very thing that makes you feel
overwhelmed
because it's happening in every single
place actually means that there's like
one
common vulnerable spot and if you can
make progress this entire thing is going
to come tumbling down around you
that makes me feel better if anything
because over the years it's felt like
it is so many different things that it's
almost impossible to tackle
exactly but the the very thing is that
feeling the more impossible it is to
tackle bizarrely the more possible it is
to tackle
because it's attacking you from so many
different things dude there may be
something wrong with you conor i don't
really know but
i i know there aren't that many things
wrong with you
thanks right it just doesn't make sense
like sure i'll give you this but it's
it's about intrusive thoughts it's about
urge for reassurance
it's about negative self-attitude and
self-fulfilling prophecies and cycles
and if we just if we change this we'll
give you a different diagnosis
that's all and it can feel like all
these different dimensions when friends
come over from thanksgiving
when i go on dates when i look at myself
in the mirror any time i stream anytime
i go to college any time i do this
anytime i do this it's one
thing and it comes down to this
okay so now i'm going to teach you a
couple of tricks
okay here's the first trick
okay question so far no that's
that that's a really good connection
because i'm just
seeing the cycle and so many different
things yeah like be it when i when i
would wake up they go to school and i
just wouldn't want to go
and i wouldn't really know why but it
would just be a cycle if you need to go
you have to do your schoolwork it's
going if you don't go to school you're
gonna have more work to do when you get
back and it's gonna be worse
and then just the cycle of well i don't
care i give up
i'm not going and then it piles on
yeah so yeah so i want to just talk
about that for a second
one of the worst things that we do to
ourself is when we know we need to do
something that's good for us
there's a whole special kind of
shittiness that we put ourselves in
when we don't do the thing that we know
we need to do
yeah that strengthens this guy
so much when you know every fiber of
your being
knows that you just gotta go to school
everything in your life would be better
if you go to school
and then when you don't do it the amount
of self-hatred
you buy yourself is immense
and this is the crazier thing we think
that the more important something is the
easier it becomes to do
but bizarrely the more important the
more of a no-brainer
it is to do something the more paralyzed
we feel
but we think it's the exact opposite and
then we judge ourselves for that
we're like there's no it's a no-brainer
i have to go to school it'll be easier
for me tomorrow
i like going to school i have fun once i
go there my friends are there
all of these different reasons and we
think that each of those reasons should
inspire us to action
but if we actually are scientific we
find that the more reasons there are for
us to do something
the more paralyzed we are and the more
reasons that we are to
that in order to do something the more
this negative self-attitude grows
and the more this grows the more it
holds us back in everything
so do you think that a root not as
specific like
not that it's one thing but something
that might have built it up over the
years
is that like i have no motivation to go
to school and i would build up that
negative self-attitude which then made
that more of a factor in other areas of
my life absolutely
yeah right and absolutely because now
all it takes it used to be school
that would bring up your negative
attitude now your negative self attitude
all it needs
is a [ __ ] mirror there's nothing in
the mirror
there's no consequence does that make
sense
right it's just a piece of glass
and you walk by and if we really look at
the truthfulness of what
there's nothing there's no nothing and
what you look in the mirror what you see
has nothing to do with the outside world
it comes all from you
there was a point where it used to be
with the outside world
like in school or maybe your first
girlfriend or whatever
but now this thing has gotten reinforced
so much it has a life of its own
it's become a whole different person
that lives inside you
and that's where the urge for
reassurance comes from
what do you think about that can you
illustrate that again really quick
yeah so the urge for reassurance is
because
you have a fundamentally negative view
of yourself
so i try to reassure myself that's not
the case yep
and then perfect right so true self is
where this comes from
urge for reassurance comes from here
what do you think about that yeah no i
mean that's that's a great way to
picture it because
i mean yeah here's the thing i've never
really been able to picture like i i do
this in my head like i'm a very
visual person like all my thoughts
almost like
visual if that makes sense so yeah when
i try to analyze this in my brain like i
come up with this
but you're putting it down on paper
makes it a lot
easier to comprehend and to digest good
that's what we're here for bro we're
just getting started buddy
okay so the other thing to let you know
is that this is
false fundamentally does that make sense
to you
it i believe you but
to but to my how much i've dealt with it
it doesn't because it feels like such a
fundamental part of how i think
yep yep so so it's a it's true in a
sense and it's false in another sense
but what i'm saying it's the urge is
true
but this attitude towards yourself
because you know this because you say
there are times where i know who my true
self is
and if this is based
[Music]
if this is related
and we know that this
is false okay
then then we know that like this can't
be true
does that make sense yes right because
we sort of know like you even said at
the very beginning if we talk about the
nature of ocd
it's being unable to
not believe things that you know are
false
you know the thoughts in your head are
wrong you just can't stop believing them
yeah right it's weird we like you
you know you shouldn't believe it but
you can't help it
yeah and then it gets to a point where
i've dealt with it for so long
that part of my like true like part of
me my
part of my logic has almost given up to
a point where i'm like
absolutely maybe maybe it is right yeah
like that's what i've dealt with
ah see maybe it is right there it is
what do we call that hopelessness
beautiful
and just like dealing with it for so
long over and over and over hold on hold
on
so now we're gonna tunnel down okay when
you say the word dealing with it
that's what this is
what do you think about that
yeah i mean it is it's that fight yeah
yep
right so it's the fight that leads to
the hopelessness
because you can't win against this
so what do you do any ideas
well if it's the fight that leads to it
then i imagine it's something to do with
not fighting
beautiful
right so this is in the east what we
call acceptance
did you ever try acceptance and
commitment therapy
act um i
i think it might have been part of my
exposure-based therapy yeah maybe
so this is going to sound kind of weird
but like imagine so what i want you to
do is like your ocd
self needs reassurance right
who does it need reassurance from
some factor that isn't myself incorrect
that's what you've believed right that's
what i mean yeah
right and just think about it what you
need
is for these two dudes to party up
because here's the thing at the end of
the day
the reason your self-attitude increases
is because you're beating yourself up
that's what this is
you say that again the reason that your
negative self-attitude is increasing is
because
you're beating yourself up because
there's reverses here
the urge for reassurance the logic is
like no no no bro don't feel that way
you're wrong
yeah this is the problem
this is the problem
because if you can reassure yourself
if instead of beating yourself up you
can reassure yourself if you can provide
comfort to yourself
then you don't need it from anyone else
yeah and i think bizarrely that's what
you started to do whether you realize it
or not
and what i mean by comfort is when you
start to
just notice things without reacting so i
don't know that you've gone as far as
providing comfort
what i think you've started to do at the
least is just let this thing be
without fighting it
yeah because you started to notice okay
my true self is over here my false self
is over here
so be it i'm gonna win some i'm gonna
lose some
yeah but when you say that you're not
fighting
yeah so are you saying that that's right
or wrong
how does it feel
um it kind of feels like i'm stuck in
limbo okay
so that's that's good because
stuck in limbo is the first step to
changing a downward spiral
okay right you gotta be neutral for a
while
and i think that's what i said i don't
think you've learned how to comfort
yourself
you've learned how to stop fighting
which if we think about it fighting like
we said
what does the logic do to the urge for
reassurance
um it's it's allowed to do that
it it gives me reassurance and like
i try to give myself reassurance and
what does it do
it counters it with the negative
self-attitude and
and so the logic the answer that i'm
looking for is we kind of talked about
this earlier but like
remember that the logic in a weird way
feeds your urge for reassurance
the more you fight against it the harder
it pushes back
so the fight between the negative
self-attitude and the true self
is almost the same as the urge
reassurance against the logic
you're damn right it is and and that's
why we have
these two arrows right
yeah yeah yeah yeah
and then what happens is then you go um
after fighting this for a while you're
exhausted and then you just give in to
all this crap down here
yeah and so what i want you to think
about is like imagine like
like i don't know if you've ever
exercised with a punching bag
yeah but like you know the harder you
hit a punching bag the harder it swings
back
that's just the nature of it
and that's how your mind works so the
harder you push against
yourself in your mind the harder your
mind pushes back
every action has an equal and opposite
reaction
energy is neither created nor destroyed
if i take a neutron and i split
it i wind up with a proton and an
electron
this is like a universal principle
and so when people talk about acceptance
like if i hit
like a punching bag and the punching bag
swings back and smacks me
what can i do to like stop the punching
bag from smacking me
stop hitting it absolutely and even then
if you want if it's swinging wildly back
and forth because you've been hitting it
for a while
what do you need to do step away from it
step away for it or hug it
sure right when it hits you you wrap
your arms around it and go for the ride
baby
and you stay with it you accept it
you embrace it okay so what does that
mean in the context
because i'm getting lost in a bit of the
analogy you're
damn right buddy okay so good so now we
get to the practical
okay so what does that mean so
practically what that means is that
you're gonna have an urge so you're
gonna have a thought you're gonna have
an intrusive thought
we can't stop that yet agreed
that's the nature of intrusive thoughts
you can't control it
all you can control uh conor is your
reaction to what happens in your mind
you can't control your mind
does that make sense yeah i agree with
that so we can't stop this
we can't stop this
we can stop this
okay so what that means what i want you
to practically do
is like the next time you like look at
yourself in the mirror can you see
yourself on stream today
yeah okay so we're gonna do this like
meditation i guess we're gonna do it now
okay okay so hold on a second
i'm gonna stop the screen share okay
okay
so we're going to try right now i want
we're going to teach you how to do this
in this moment can't you see yourself
yeah so i want all you guys to kind of
try to do this if you can
but if you load yourself then this is
the practice for you
okay i want you to so what we're gonna
do is like i'm gonna ask you to look at
yourself in a second
and when you look at yourself i'm i want
you to notice
this like programming that starts up
you're gonna feel like all these
negative thoughts and then
what's going to happen is that a voice
automatically is going to come to your
defense
and that's going to be like no man that
stuff isn't true like khan is a great
guy
okay and then they're going to start to
war and you're gonna try
to suppress one don't do that
sit with both of those things and i want
you to be like referee between those two
things
and understand that conor is allowed and
has a good reason to feel the way that
he does
we don't want to teach you that we're
wrong you're wrong we want to teach you
that
you're right and it doesn't mean what
you think it means
right so like if i have a kid who like
you know they're
let's say they're like making a cupcake
and they mess up the icing i don't tell
the kid
yeah you messed up the ice you didn't
mess up the icing no no the icing is
fine
everything's is is great i tell them
yeah you screwed up the icing and it's
not the end of the world
what you need conor is for your true
self to reassure
your negative self it's not that your
negative self is wrong
it's just that all of the thoughts and
conclusions that your mind comes up with
about the premises which happen to be
true
that's what we need to let go so
what do you mean by that so the thoughts
that i'm
oh my my thoughts must feel like
conclusions if that makes sense
yeah so so that's what you need to tease
apart right so we'll see this in the
moment when i ask you to look at
yourself
but like you're going to look at
yourself and you're gonna say like okay
like my
face is right
whatever and then then what's gonna
happen is your mind is gonna
jump to a conclusion therefore no one
will ever love me
right and then what i want you to do is
almost be like an older brother to
yourself
and be like hey man like let's be honest
you're not the best looking guy on the
planet
and just because you're not the best
looking guy doesn't mean that you're
going to be alone for the rest of your
life
but i'm going to give you that you're
not the best looking guy on the planet
that's cool right we're not going to i'm
not going to argue with you against that
you can have that one i'll take the l
but can we just accept you anyway
can we say that i'm ugly and
like i'm actually a pretty cool guy can
the true self and negative self
that part of what you that you know you
are the part of you that looks at the
false self and says
that isn't me instead of the two y'all
fighting can both y'all coexist
i guess like part of me doesn't want to
like accept
that the negative thought is true yep
there's your problem because that's the
origin of
that's the origin of the the
fight because remember i don't want to i
don't want to look at myself in the
mirror and just be every time be like
yeah you're ugly
no no we're not we're not accepting that
you're ugly
per se so this is where remember when i
asked you
okay so i'm gonna switch back to this
for a second okay
okay remember when i asked you
is this false or true
do you remember that yes
the urge for reassurance is true
it's not that you're actually ugly
what's true
is that you feel ugly
okay and your true self can let your ocd
self feel that they're ugly
like hey man i get that you think you're
ugly
i'm not gonna try to convince you that
you're not but i understand that you
feel that way about yourself
okay okay does that make sense that
makes more sense yeah when you did the
big brother analogy i was like
i was viewing that as almost the the
objective truth i guess
no it's not about it's not about the
objective truth because like
this is the thing it's the search for
objective truth that is the source of
the conflict
because the ocd self says i'm
objectively true the true self says i'm
objectively true
and then they fight about it forget
about objective truth
what you're going to do is learn how to
accept yourself
even if you're wrong
okay it's not about right or wrong it's
about accepting both sides
yeah okay we're gonna try it and then
we'll see if this like works for you or
not okay so now can you see yourself can
you maximize your
i'll definitely try it off stream as
well okay sure i imagine in my own
like environment it'll be easier than
knowing i'm in front of people
but good so we want it we want it when
it's harder not when it's easier yeah
okay so just maximize your own image
okay
give me a window into your mind conor
what do you see so
immediately like i'm extremely critical
about like how my mouth moves how i see
myself
um i'm almost like looking at myself and
like seeing into my thoughts
negatively okay so close your eyes for a
second
and just watch all of that negativity
arise
okay so like all that stuff could be
true we're not here to find objective
truth
do you see your response to it
um it's kind of just there like i
like i'm like all those thoughts are
there and
observing them okay
so just watch them what happens to you
i just feel like uncomfortable i guess
okay good tell me what that discomfort
feels like
where do you it feels like it feels like
those thoughts
are becoming true to me okay so watch
them become truer and truer to you
what is it like for them to become true
um just kind of get more sad
and down i guess good okay so notice
those feelings now
that you feel sad that there's a part of
you that feels sad because it believes
this thing to be true
right and what do you want to do to the
part of you that feels sad because it's
like
destined to whatever um
i want to like fix it okay be happy
right that's what you have to let go my
friend
do you see that's your reaction so
there's this whole channel
i supposed and i'm looking there's this
whole channel of thoughts oh my mouth is
moving weird whatever
and then like those thoughts gel into
truth
and then they create a sense of sadness
and then along comes the true self no no
no
conor we shall not be sad we shall
triumph
and be victorious and live a life of
happiness
and what you're doing in that moment is
bullying
the negative self
you're telling it your feelings are
wrong
bad negative self that's not what we
want to believe
because there's a part of you that's
afraid that if you if you accept it and
you stop
fighting then what's gonna happen
that everybody else will look at me
weird and
nobody will like me because i'm not
making any effort to make myself
presentable or good in any way
okay so that too that's coming from the
negative self
do you see that those thoughts are
original from the negative self so now
what's happening
when you want to make yourself be happy
and not let yourself be sad you're doing
okay
okay so this is what happens is like
imagine i'm hitting the punching bag
and i hit the punching bag really hard
and it swings back at me really hard
what do i need to do
i need to hit it again to make it go
away right
and so when you try to chase after
happiness and you don't want to accept
the possibility of sadness
you hit back further and then it swings
back and you keep on doing that keep on
doing that until you run out of mana
and then it smacks you in the face and
then you lose
because it's your very own energy so you
don't want it okay so like
so you could be sad how do you feel
about that
sorry with my eyes closed my thoughts
move so fast it's hard to focus
okay so go ahead and open them then okay
so um yeah can you repeat that yeah
so um so you may be sad what do you
think about that
um
[Music]
it doesn't feel good okay um and it's
it's what it's what i said like there's
that instant desire to fix it
yep so that too i want you to notice
that desire to fix it that desire to fix
it actually doesn't come from the true
self
okay but notice that desire to fix it
and just let it be there
and now i want you to think about the
person that you are when you're
streaming who is that
does that person try to fix anything
not in the same way absolutely
right so it's not it's not self-critical
it's more
problem-solving if that makes sense yeah
how to describe it yep
i think it's very different there's a
difference between
trying to fix something and trying to
build something
i think your streaming self doesn't
think that anything is broken
you're just striving for more
right it's about effort and growth not
about
repair and security
it's offering the best of what you have
right and so when i'm not doing that i'm
i feel like i'm almost always in a state
of
trying to reassure myself and make
myself
feel justified i guess yep absolutely
right so now what you need to do is like
notice those two modes of operation
in the instinct now you have to be
really careful the instinct is going to
be let me adopt the streamer mode of
operation
yeah let me do things this way instead
of doing things that way
which is falling into the same [ __ ]
trap right because i've tried that
yep there we go it's the same trap
going to work just
let yourself sit in the sadness and
acknowledge for a moment that you're
allowed to be sad
you're allowed to be hopeless that
there's a part of you that wants very
hard
to take this suffering away from you
and it is when we try to protect
ourselves from the suffering that life
gives us
that we trap ourselves the most
right because like when i'm when i am
feeling good
like those thoughts aren't even a factor
if that makes so like during my
day-to-day my appearance and how other
people perceive me is a is a factor that
i'm constantly
at war with yup in this cycle but when
i'm
feeling my best that's not even a second
thought because i'm not on camera
uh i'm not i feel like i'm i'm separated
yep if that makes sense yeah from those
from what feels like realities
so that separation comes from
observation
so you can't be separate from something
any
anything that i observe must be separate
from me the seer in the scene
cannot be the same thing when i look at
myself in the mirror
what am i looking at am i looking at
myself
no you're looking at a reflection of
yourself beautiful
if you want to create separation connor
just
see it and the separation will be there
you have told me that for you to be free
of this thing
you need to be separate from it you
specified me by separate again separate
you tell me because you're the [ __ ]
one who said it
you said i'm trying to remember what i
just said it was good so go back and
watch the bot
but basically you were telling me that
when you're off camera
you're separate from these things these
thoughts don't even affect you they're
not a factor
right yeah right and so there there are
moments of time
where you have vairagya
detachment separation viagra for a
second
it's not viagra okay
that's the sanskrit word for detachment
when your thoughts are not reality
they're just thoughts
and the way that you create that
separation is through observation
not trying to fix it because fixing it
is getting into it
just watching it happen and when you
watch it because like
this is me and then like if i see it
like
it has to have distance
so when i ask you to stop and observe
the urge
and observe how you want to fix it it'll
naturally dwindle over time
okay and what you guys see what you're
saying what you found is a shortcut
to that dwindling process which was
streaming
and now we get to the idea of an escape
because when you're streaming you're
your true self
and how does that work that's because
you're free from all of these thoughts
i'm three i'm free from the physicality
i'm free from like the
fear of like actual consequence i guess
because it's easier to
feel separate when i'm in front of a
screen i guess even though there is
obviously more consequence now that i'm
it's my career
but like especially when i first started
like when i first started streaming like
it
felt like a complete disconnect yeah
and so now now here's the cool thing so
you i think that that's
true and at the same time you've found a
solution to this problem
that is not actually controlled by you
it's a circumstantial solution right and
that's right
that's why people call it an escape so
now what you need to do is
learn how to separate yourself in every
moment of every day
and then all of those cycles will start
to fall apart
same thing needs to happen for all of
them doesn't matter notice the intrusive
thought ah [ __ ] here we go again
it's like if you're terrified of a
roller coaster and you hate being on it
you might as well throw your hands up in
the air and scream and try to enjoy the
ride
that's what you need the intrusive
thought comes
the urge comes here i go trying to fix
it again
can i hold back from trying to fix it no
i can't
okay here we go there's me fighting
there's me fighting there's me fighting
ran out of mana oh there's that
clinginess oh man that clinginess comes
up
the sadness comes up the fear comes up
yeah and then oh here i go texting oh
[ __ ]
here i am judging myself for texting
sure
here i am seeing yeah the thing about
that is like even like
that cycle is so prevalent that like
even if i text something that almost
is like completely fair and like isn't
even
doesn't even come from a place of like
reassurance
immediately after i become self-critical
and that cycle starts well what if it
was what if
what if your thought what if you didn't
even realize that that was
a negative like a negative uh
reassurance seeking right so then what
you do is you
before you send the text message true
connor says
all right we're about to send this and
conor prepare yourself
you want to send this in this moment
because you think things are going to
get better
prepare yourself for the backlash
prepare yourself for cycle 2
you hit the text button there's the
intrusive thought
there we go again yeah
just like you said and watch it happen
to yourself
you know it's coming watch it happen let
it happen
if you feel like fighting fight but
fight with awareness
and i guarantee you conor whatever
you've been doing for the past couple of
months that's helped a little bit
you continue doing this mindful practice
this will start to dwindle away what did
you mean by fight with awareness
exactly because i thought i was trying
to not fight if you can't help
butt fight at least acknowledge that
you're fighting and that it's the wrong
thing to do
and let yourself do it okay
yeah because the more awareness you
create i'm not aware of anything what's
on my forehead i can't see
in order to see it needs to be over here
this is awareness
this is bringing something when you're
not awareness
is watching something from the outside
so the more that you become aware the
more separation you create
and then you become something called
detached
which is when when you when you say it
isn't a factor anymore
that is why so people like ask me like
don't you have sadness and all this kind
of [ __ ] do i have anxieties and all that
sort of stuff
sure i'm no different from any of you
guys the only difference
is that it's not a factor yeah
every time i yeah go ahead that's like a
kind of like that's sort of where i've
been
learning like where i've been at over
the past few months that i talked about
from listening to stuff with you like
in terms of like spiritual kind of
consciousness or
self versus thoughts like that's pretty
much what you're saying
and yep and so here's the cool thing
what has happened to your suffering
the more you have become aware that
there is a consciousness that is
separate from your thoughts
um it's become easier
i i've been able to observe
that the negative isn't necessarily
objective
exactly right it's become easier
so what i'm telling you is every moment
of awareness
is leveling up your consciousness and
the more your consciousness
levels up i kid you not this [ __ ] is op
conor
this is what buddha was talking about
when he was talking about enlightenment
it is when awareness becomes a hundred
percent all the time
and then suffering ceases to exist
sadness exists pain exists emotion
exists
hurt exists suffering does not
yeah um yeah that makes sense
it really does make sense
because i can i can see like areas where
that's just yeah absolutely
there we go man questions
um i can't really think of any questions
i
i think i'm just going to like re-watch
re-listen and try to like
apply is the main thing absolutely man
it's a slow road
so let me tell you one or two other
things how old are you connor i'm 21.
okay so not young
yet yeah i turned 21 two weeks ago okay
so let me tell you this journey is going
to take you a couple of years
it's going to get better over time
i don't know if you're ever truly going
to be quote unquote free for from this
but i do think you can get free on a
level that
will blow your mind i think part of it
is like here's what i've come to
understand is
even the search to get better
is an attachment
and that to accept that you won't be
better is actually like
a really really important milestone
to accept or like accepting that like
like that isn't the objective i guess i
mean it certainly is a objective and you
should try to get better
but even the chase to become better is
once again your desire you said it so
beautifully
i want to fix it yeah that was what if
you talk to my uh
therapist that i've had since i was like
16 like i've
told her that so many times over the
years like when i i'm not even 16 like
probably
13 14. like i remember i would go like
i'd not be able to go to class and i'd
just be crying in their office like i
just want to fix it i just want to be
better
so i can't describe it but i want to fix
this
so oddly conor here's the real thing
that i hadn't really pieced together
i think the source of this is not
the negative self-attitude it's your
obsession to fix it
the thing which you think has been
helping you and you've been
dumping all your points into it level up
is actually the thing that's trapping
you
let it be
accept it for what it is because when
you let it be there
it's not about fixing it it's about not
letting it be a factor
and when i ask you i mean if you said it
so beautifully like it's still
there it's just not a factor you don't
even need to fix it
right it's the obsession to fix
which ties us up the most
yeah no that's
that everything that you said clicked
today but like that was like really like
it's almost like an easy way to
encompass all of it
that makes sense like the entire
illustration you're trying to make
and the idea of separation
um the way you describe the fixing it
thing kind of
clicks on a more basic level i think
makes sense to me so now i'll ask you so
i'll test you connor
and now notice the anxiety rise because
oh my god you're gonna get tested
is it there i'm kinda i'm
i'm pretty confident that i'm
understanding a good thing whether or
not i can put words to it
i forgot my question
okay here's something i want to
understand so conor
what is it that we're trying to fix
today
um well i was trying to fix
in the end i was trying to fix that i
was trying to fix stuff
that makes sense yeah so another way
to say that i think is in a sense
absolutely nothing
right right and that's hard to like it's
easy to misconstrue that in my head and
be like well i'm does that mean i'm not
trying to get better but no it's just
that
that that entire drive
of just constant overthinking constant
what do i do
what is this that why i do this is
is causing the loop absolutely so so now
we can see now you said it they just
connected it for me right so if we think
about it
what is your ocd always trying to do
get reassurance and to
get fix a problem absolutely that's why
you send the text
gotta fix it gotta fix it gotta fix it
gotta fix it gotta fix it
yeah gotta make it better gotta take it
away can't keep doing this
the very opposite of acceptance
and so you get tied up worse and worse
and worse and worse because your
antidote is the poison
yeah yeah
your antidote is the poison of your life
was that from is that that was from
something
it sounded like it was like that's why
it's like
i thought you were making a reference i
was like oh
it's like it's this like zen wisdom kind
of stuff that's full of pain what you're
saying yeah
i was trolling myself because i deserve
to be trolled
when i speak like that
okay so i sort of taught you a
meditative practice today do you feel
comfortable with that
um so what what is that
what kind of meditative process does
that call it if i wanted to like look
that up and
i mean that that in and of itself is not
like a particular practice it's just
because i think you've already
cultivated some awareness
yeah so it's just creating that
awareness of allowing the
negativity and yep observe like
observing isn't the right yeah so i
think the closest thing is actually
mindfulness so i rarely teach
mindfulness
on stream this is a mindfulness practice
of what's traditionally known as
mindfulness
which is like in your case i think
you've actually you've spent so much
time in your head i don't need to teach
you how to be in your head
you've actually learned how to see those
things
so all i'm telling you to do is like you
can use a particular
object to evoke that process in a
controlled fashion
it's almost like an exposure therapy in
your mind
yeah right and and i'm not surprised
that exposure therapy worked well for
you because i think you have the
temperament
for mindfulness because like you're able
to see things within yourself and i'd
say just like look in the mirror like
you got to be careful because you don't
want to let it
go too wild right so once again you
don't want to like
push yourself to look in the mirror
every day like i'm gonna look in the
mirror
i'm gonna fix this
that's gonna be falling into the same
track whenever you can just look in the
mirror and like
do it for three or four minutes let
those thoughts come up
and notice them take a deep breath and
then walk away
there's a chance that your day is
torpedoed for the rest torpedo possum
and if it is let yourself be torpedoed
no that makes sense yeah
cool man this has helped this is this is
helpful
other people too yeah yeah i i don't
know how much of it i wasn't really
watching but
um you know
i mean hopefully i i don't know how far
in the weeds we were and how applicable
that was to other people
yeah i mean that was the big thing is
like i wanted to help myself but like i
i really want to make sure that like
others like if anybody else can get
something out of that
and like not go down an eight year
and maybe get a little bit you know get
there a little bit faster
than that that's what yeah that's good
yeah cool man
well thanks a lot for coming on man
and no problem i'm down again anytime
okay
yeah so so you know try this out for a
little while and continue watching
yourself
if you want to learn a formal meditation
practice you know you're welcome to do
whatever else we do on stream i think
all that stuff will help
it'll train your mind but i think in
your case
really as you can try to grapple with
with this beast inside you from time to
time
and okay you know expose it to you
your non-judgmental self and then i
think you'll start to get i mean you'll
continue to get better because you've
started to get better
and for what it's worth i think it's
really awesome that you have tried so
hard and have been in treatment because
i think that's certainly very helpful
too
yeah and like every time i talk about
the day like it's it's a lot
and like i almost like feel myself after
like well i want to make sure i get it
all and understand
but like that's part of what you're
talking about is kind of beautiful
acting on that
that's exactly what i'm saying so now
i'm confident you've understood
yeah you want to fix it you want to make
sure you got everything you needed to
because then you'll fix it faster right
but see
already you're noticing oh like there it
is again
you see how pervasive it is and since
it's pervasive it affects all
avenues of your life
yep good fantastic man awesome good luck
do you want to just tell us
a little bit about your stream and stuff
um oh i'm just
uh i just play video games and i try to
make people laugh
um give you know that's all i really do
um
i uh play with friends a lot of time i'm
probably friends i'm friends with a lot
of the
bigger streamers that have been on here
before like pokey miz
uh uh blair uh cutie um
everybody like that so uh people
probably see me around but
i just play video games that's my main
thing
and and it's conor eats pants yes
that was i made that name just so people
would remember it
there's no history there it's just yep
all right man well best of luck to you
connor seriously i mean that
and i i think i think you're on a good
journey and i think in a couple of years
you'll be in a really good spot man
thank you bye thank you bye
okay chat